#abstract writing exercise

Wind pollinated conifer species rely on synchronized pollen shed and cone receptivity for mating. Fecundity, gene flow, and range limits of many widespread North American conifers are likely to be negatively affected as the climate changes and their pollination phenology shifts. In this study, we model the relationship between temperature and pollination phenology in *Pinus contorta* var. *latifolia* (lodgepole pine) and calculate shifts in pollination phenology and length of phenological period under different warming scenarios. Using pollination phenology data from trees grown at 8 sites over 15 years and sourced from across British Columbia, we built a hierarchical Bayesian model predicting the timing and length of pollen shed and cone receptivity and extended it across entire range of lodgepole pine in the present and under three climate change scenarios. We find that there is no significant genetic effect on pollination phenology and only heat sum is required for prediction. This leads to strong spatial patterns in pollination phenology that may create and maintain local adaptation. As temperatures warm, the pollination phenology period advances and shortens, desynchronizing populations and restricting gene flow. Pollen shed advances more rapidly than receptivity, especially in southern populations, which may lead some populations to become pollen limited and increases outcrossing. Pollination phenology is driven by temperature, and the phenological shifts expected under climate change are likely to restrict gene flow in the future.